## **Step 2 - Customizing the Application**

The next steps will explain the structure of the supplied project and will tell you how to extend its functionality.

This part describes how to add application-specific implementations.

###  Microsoft Visual Studio 2003, 2005, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2017

In the installed tutorial, the paths for the Include and Library files have been set according to the directory structure of the installation. If you have changed this structure or want to generate the tutorial in a different directory, you have to change the settings.

You will find the corresponding forms in the figures below.

Please make sure that you choose "All configurations" when setting the directories for the header files. You will reach the forms via the menu item Project->Properties.

# Bild

# Bild


### Brief explanation on the generated classes

The generated project contains 6 classes: **MyCreator**, **MyDaAddressSpaceElement**, **MyDaAddressSpaceRoot**, **MyRequest**, **MyTransaction** and **OpcServer**. The first five classes are defined only using a header file and for the last one a header and a source file exists. The name of the header and source files coincide with the class name.

**MyCreator** class is used to create OPC server specific objects. **MyDaAddressSpaceElement** and **MyDaAddressSpaceRoot** classes are used for creating the server address space and **MyRequest** and **MyTransaction** classes are used to create and handle requests.

The **OpcServer** class contains a small number of methods that are needed to create a functional OPC server. It has methods for initializing (**initialize**), preparing (**prepare**), starting (**start**), stopping (**stop**) and terminating (**terminate**) the server application. The other methods are for tracing the server application (**trace**), processing CommandLine (**processCommandLine**) and setting the service name (**setServiceName**) that is used when the project needs to be run as a service. Two other methods exist: one for building the address space (**buildNameSpace**) and one for changing the values of the already existing AddressSpaceelement.

When running the project, an instance of the **OpcServer** class is created and then the application is initialized. You can see this below:

```
// create and initialize the OpcServer instance
    createOpcServer();
    OpcServer* pServer = getOpcServer();
    pServer->initialize();
```

After the application was succesfully initialized its time to prepare the application and then register the current server:

```
MyCreator creator;
pServer->prepare(&creator));

// provide the server with the proper custom creator
MyCreator creator;
if (!SUCCEEDED(pServer->prepare(&creator)))
{
    pServer->terminate();
    destroyOpcServer();

    CloseHandle(g_endEvent);
    return 1;
}

// handle the command line arguments (register/unregister, etc)
tstring commandLine(GetCommandLine());
result = pServer->processCommandLine(commandLine);
```

If everything is successful then the server application is started and the adress space is created. In the generated project, building the address space is skipped. The next step will show how to build the address space and where to call the method that does this.