## **Step 1 - Generating the Application**

At the end of the tutorial, you will have created a Data Access Client with access to an item of the supplied demo server. For the created item DataChanged callbacks will be received whenever its value changes.

This section describes how to generate an application by using the [Project Wizard](c2dd4578-aa68-4ba7-bf5b-4da879baaa29.htm) of the Softing OPC Toolkit V4.4x.

First, you need to create a new project by selecting the "Project Wizard" from the start menu folder "Programs | Softing OPC Toolkit V4.4x". The Application Assistant shown in the figure below opens. On the first page of the wizard select the Microsoft Windows operating system.

# Bild

Then select the used programming language which is C++ in this case.

# Bild

In the next page select the development environment. In this tutorial Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 will be used.

# Bild

Type the name of the OPC client project and the location where it should be created. Note that the directory path must be a valid one. In case the directory path doesn't exist, a message error will block you from going further.

# Bild

Next the OPC specification must be chosen. We want to create a Data Access client so please choose the OPC Data Access specification.

# Bild

Choose the application type as being Console.

# Bild

Choose the compiler settings.

# Bild

For the tutorial, we do not want the wizard to generate a client that receives DataChanged callbacks. In the next step, we will see how to receive these callbacks for the already created item.

# Bild

Review all the settings using the last page and then press **Finish**.

# Bild

After the Project Wizard has generated the source code, you have a compilable, executable OPC Client. However, it does not do anything yet because this is what we are going to do in next step.
