## **Step 3 - Extending the Application**

This step will explain how to implement extra functionality to the generated project.

First let's see how the **readItem** method can be used to read the item's value. Go to **Console.cpp** file and search the **_tmain** function. Here the OPC client is initialized using the methods from the OpcClient class. After initializing the OPC objects, the **readItem** method can be used to read an item's value.

Find the while cycle and replace the // TODO: place your cyclic code here line with the call of the **readItem** method. Also change the wait time from 100 to 1000 ms.

Before you make any change you should have this:

```
while (!end)
{
    waitRet = WaitForSingleObject(g_endEvent, waitTime);
    waitTime = 100;
    if (waitRet == WAIT_OBJECT_0)
    {
        end = TRUE;
    }
    else
    {
        // TODO: place your cyclic code here
    } // end if...else
} // end while
```

After making the changes you should have this:

```
while (!end)
{

    waitRet = WaitForSingleObject(g_endEvent, waitTime);
    waitTime = 1000; // was previously 100
    if (waitRet == WAIT_OBJECT_0)
    {
        end = TRUE;
    }
    else
    {
         tstring value = pClient->readItem(); 
        _tprintf("%s",value.c_str());
    } // end if...else 
} // end while
```

You can compile and link the files. If you install your project on a PC system be aware that the corresponding Toolkit libraries (OTB*.dll, TBCVS2010*.dll) are beside your application (installed in the same directory) or can be found by the system's PATH variable.

When running the program, you can see that a message is displayed on the console every 1000 ms containing the item value together with its quality and timestamp.

### Note
```
If you use the [Project Wizard](c2dd4578-aa68-4ba7-bf5b-4da879baaa29.htm) and you choose to add simulation values you will have the same functionality except 
that another thread will be created with the purpose of calling the **readItem** method every second. The read value 
will be written in a file instead of being displayed on the console.
```

You can go further and change the project so that DataChanged callbacks are received. For this, MyDaSubscription class must be changed by adding an extra method: **handleDataChanged**. Using this method, the client will receive DataChanged callbacks for the items added to the existing subscription if their value changes. The received items' values will be displayed on the console together with their quality and timestamp.

Add the following code in file where MyDaSubscription class is defined:

```
// MyDaSubscription.h
void handleDataChanged(
    const std::vector<SoftingOPCToolboxClient::DaItem*>& items,
    const std::vector<ValueQT*>& values,
    const std::vector<long>& results)
{
    unsigned long i;
    size_t count = items.size();
    _tprintf(_T("\n%s - Data changed\n"), _T("Subscription"));
    for (i = 0; i < count; i++)
    {
        _tprintf(_T("%-23.23s - %s\n"), items[i]->getId().c_str(),values[i]->toString().c_str());
    } // end for    
}
```
Before running the project please insert the following line in the MyDaSubscription.h file:

#include "Da\ClientDaItem.h"

below the already existing line:

#include "Da\ClientDaSubscription.h"

Change the call of **m_daSession->connect(...)** in the long OpcClient::initializeDaObjects() function to use 2 times TRUE:

```
    long OpcClient::initializeDaObjects(){
    // ... 
    long connectResult = m_daSession->connect(TRUE, TRUE, &executionOptions);        
    // ... 
}    // end initializeDaObjects
```

You can compile and run the project. Now you will have 2 types of messages on the screen: one saying that the item read was succesful and one saying that a DataChanged callback was received. Each message contain the current value of the "math.sin" item.

To stop the client from running please press **CTRL + C** in the console window.