## **Step 1 - Generating the Application**

At the end of the tutorial, you will have created an Alarms and Events Server with an event in the event space and an event source which can initiate simple events.

This section describes how to generate an application by using the [Project Wizard](c2dd4578-aa68-4ba7-bf5b-4da879baaa29.htm) of the Softing OPC Toolkit V4.4x.

First, you need to create a new project by selecting the "Project Wizard" from the start menu folder "Programs | Softing OPC Toolkit V4.4x". The Application Assistant shown in the figure below opens. On the first page of the wizard select the Microsoft Windows operating system.

# Bild

Then select the used programming language which is C++ in this case.

# Bild

In the next page select the development environment. In this tutorial Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 will be used.

# Bild

Type the name of the OPC server project and the location where it should be created. Note that the directory path must be a valid one. In case the directory path doesn't exist, a message error will block you from going further.

# Bild

Next the OPC specification must be chosen. We want to create an Alarms and Events Server so please choose the OPC Alarms & Events specification.

# Bild

Choose the application type as being Console.

# Bild

Choose the compiler settings.

# Bild

For the tutorial, we do not want the wizard to generate a server that simulates events. In the next steps, we will see how to generate these events.

# Bild

Review all the settings using the last page and then press **Finish**.

# Bild

After the Project Wizard has generated the source code, you have a compilable, executable OPC Server. In the next steps we are going to see how to create area and source spaces and how to generate events.